Profile Portrait of a Lady is oil on panel painting by an unknown Franco-Flemish artist, dated to about 1410.
In the center of the work is a Maest (Madonna Enthroned with Child) and, at the sides, are the Saints Dominic, John the Baptist, Peter of Verona, and Thomas Aquinas.
It shows the virgin, rather conventionally receiving the voice of the holy spirit, who hovers above her in the form of a dove.
The work includes a large central panel, depicting the Madonna Enthroned with Child and Angels, which was fully painted by Fra Angelico.
The sitter in this small work wears a wide, white hennin over a brown dress, which features a black-lined, v-shaped neckline.
The panel shows Saint Barbara imprisoned in a tower by her pagan father, to preserve her from the outside world, especially from suitors he did not approve of.
The centre of the composition is the face of the Madonna, who sits on a precious throne holding the Child.
The Virgin is presented as "Queen of Heaven", and is seated under a canopy with red curtains held apart by angels.
The central scene shows the Crucifixion of Jesus, with the Virgin Mary clinging to the foot of the cross, John the Evangelist comforting her and the painting's two donors kneeling to the right.
The painting depicts the Annunciation of Mary with the archangel Gabriel (left) and Mary (right).
The painting portrays Mary in a wide blue cloak, while she is lifted up from a sepulchre depicted in perspective.
It portrays Christ kneeling on the Mount of Olives in prayer, with his disciples Peter, James and John sleeping near to him.
Dead Christ Supported by Two Angels is a painting by  Italian Renaissance painter Giovanni Bellini, created around 1460.
It shows an anti-Semitic story of host desecration, possibly inspired by Bernardino of Siena's sermons, running from left to right and with each scene separated from the next by separately-painted half-balustrades.
The theme derives from Filippo Lippi's works such as the Lippina (c. 1465), with Mary holding the child Jesus on her womb, with the help of two baby angels.
Crucifixion is a painting of the Crucifixion of Christ, usually attributed to Perugino, with or without assistance from Luca Signorelli.
The work depicts the Crucifixion on a river valley background, whose small details show the influence of Flemish painting.
The inner center panel of the triptych altarpiece show Saint Christopher holding the Christ Child, with Saint Maurus to his left and Saint Gills to his right.
The woman represented in Fortitude could be Lucrezia Donati.
It shows a scene from the famous story of Saint George and the dragon.
Madonna Adoring the Sleeping Christ Child is a c.1475 tempera on panel painting by Giovanni Bellini, measuring 77 cm by 56 cm.
Madonna and Child is a 1475 tempera on panel painting by Giovanni Bellini.
The scene shows the Pope, seen slightly from below, faced by the kneeling humanist Bartolomeo Platina, together with the Pope's nephews: the two cardinals, Giuliano della Rovere, standing in front of the Pope, and Raffaele Riario behind his chair.
The child is thought to be guiding his mother's hands into his central vision.
The Lamentation of Christ (also known as the Lamentation over the Dead Christ, or the Dead Christ and other variants) is a painting of about 1480 by the Italian Renaissance artist Andrea Mantegna.
The left panel shows the Garden of Eden, at the top God is shown seated in Heaven while the Rebel Angels are cast out of Heaven and transformed into insects.
The fresco depicting the voyage of Moses is the first on the wall right to the altar, and faces the Baptism of Christ on the opposite wall.
The serene landscape with light trees is also common in his paintings of the period.
The painting depicts three episodes and tells of a rebellion by the Israelites against Moses and Aaron.
It is now in the Hans Memling museum at the Old St. John's Hospital in Bruges and shows a young woman who is not pretty, but nonetheless elegant and well dressed.
It shows the Roman gods Venus, goddess of love, and Mars, god of war, in an allegory of beauty and valour.
The Madonna of the Magnificat, Italian: Madonna del Magnificat, is a painting of circular or tondo form by the Italian Renaissance painter Sandro Botticelli.
An early work by the artist, it shows an Annunciation scene between John the Baptist (left, patron saint of Florence) and Andrew (right, with his diagonal cross).
It features, above a sumptuous Renaissance architecture, a marble altar with a rich frieze; at the top of is a throne on which the Madonna and Child sit.
It depicts the presentation of Jesus Christ by Pontius Pilate to the throngs of Jerusalem.
Madonna and Child with St John the Baptist and St Catherine of Alexandria is a c.1495 oil on panel painting by Perugino of the Madonna and Child with John the Baptist and Catherine of Alexandria.
Jerome is portrayed during his hermitage, surrounded by all the symbols traditionally attributed to him: the tamed lion, the hat and the cardinal garments on the ground (a symbol of rejection of earthly honors), the book (Jerome was a translator of the Vulgate), the stone he used to hit himself, and the crucifix for the prayers.
He is balanced on the Virgin's knee, with Joseph to her left and saint Elisabeth (identical to the Elisabeth in the Madonna della Vittoria) with her son John the Baptist to the right.
Emerging from the undefined forms is the suggestion of misty mountains in the background.
The woman portrayed is Elisabetta Gonzaga, wife of Duke Guidobaldo
These are read from left to right:  Virginia, in the company of other women, is violated or assaulted by Marcus Claudius Tacitus, who wants to force her to yield to Appius Claudius Caecus;
It shows three philosophers  one young, one middle-aged, and one old.
To the left is saint Joseph and to the right is an unidentified female saint, possibly Mary Magdalene.
As in Madonna with Sleeping Child (Berlin) and Madonna and Child (Bergamo), the Virgin is touching her face to her son's, a pose drawn from Donatello, particularly his Pazzi Madonna.
Bosch depicts how people are fooled by lack of alertness and insight, creating a "spellbinding tension" that reappears in his later paintings.
The painting, over a background with gently steeped hills, portrays a fight between the symbolic figures of Love and Chastity.
It depicts the marriage between Joseph and Mary, and is now in the Muse des Beaux-Arts of Caen, France.
The painting depicts a variety of frightened animals attempting to escape a forest fire.
The work depicts the Archangel Michael in combat with the demons of Hell, while the damned suffer behind him.
The Young Man with an Apple is a painting by the Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael (1505).
Above is the Holy Spirit descending as a dove, whilst a figure to the left is probably an angel holding Christ's garments.
The Portrait of Guidobaldo da Montefeltro is a picture by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael, dating from around 1506 and housed in the Uffizi Gallery, Florence.
The painting illustrates the legendary martyrdom of ten thousand Christian soldiers perpetrated on Mount Ararat by the King of Persia, Shapur I, by the order of the Roman emperor Hadrian or Antoninus Pius, or, according to other sources, Diocletian.
The painting portrays three young people on a lawn, playing music together, while next to them a standing woman is pouring water from a marble basin.
The Portrait of a Cardinal is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Raphael.
However, due to the greater sizes, he enhanced some decorative details, such as the ribbons held by the angels.
The landscape and sky are generally accepted to be mainly by him.
It shows Mary embracing the child Christ, while the young John the Baptist watches.
A Bohemian priest who doubted the doctrine of transubstantiation, was celebrating mass at Bolsena, when the bread of the eucharist began to bleed.
It portrays an idealized beautiful woman, a model established in the Venetian school by Titian's master Giorgione with his Laura.
However, in all of them David focuses attention on the seated Virgin Mary breastfeeding the Christ Child, enthroned in front of a deep forest landscape background.
The work depicts Jesus carrying the cross above a dark background, surrounded by numerous heads, most of which are characterized with grotesque faces.
The subject of the painting is a Holy Conversation, with the Virgin and the Child sitting on a throne surrounded by saints.
It depicts Christ and a Pharisee at the moment in the Gospels when Christ is shown a coin and says "Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's".
It shows the common subject of Christ Carrying the Cross to his crucifixion, at the moment when he fell and his mother suffers a spasm of agony, the Swoon of the Virgin, or "Lo Spasimo".
It depicts Saints Mary and Elizabeth with the baby Jesus and a genuflecting Saint John holding a cross of reeds.
The subject is portrayed seated, turned to the viewer's left, wearing a deep red velvet dress trimmed with gold whose sleeves are slashed to reveal the cream fabric of her chemise, and a hat with jewels on the brim, whose shape suggests a halo.
To the left are John the Baptist (patron of Florence and of the chapel) and Antony the Great, whilst to the right are saint Stephen (patron saint of the chiesa di Grezzano, with one of the stones with which he was martyred still in his head) and Jerome (with a book).
Portrait of a Lady with a Squirrel and a Starling is a 15261528 oil and tempera on oak portrait by Hans Holbein the Younger.
The Man with a Glove is an oil-on-canvas portrait by the Italian Renaissance artist Titian, c. 1520.
The Self-Portrait with a friend (also known as Double Portrait) is a painting by Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael.
It also shows John the Apostle and Mary Magdalene kneeling either side of the Virgin Mary.
The panels are:  Resurrection of Christ, 278x122 cm Saints Nazarius and Celsus with Donor,
The decorative programme included other major paintings celebrating Bacchus and Venus, the gods of wine and love.
They are shown in front of a large hanging green curtain and behind a low parapet.
The painting depicts the Virgin Mary seated on a high pedestal in luxurious robes, holding a rather large baby Jesus on her lap.
She was not a great beauty, but had a striking manner and strength of character.
The Portrait of a Young Man with a Book is a c.1530s oil on board painting by Agnolo Bronzino.
Tintoretto showing a scene from the Greek addition to the Book of Esther, where Queen Esther faints during a bold intervention with her husband King Ahasuerus of Persia.
This painting shows the artist's family in a landscape and portrays her father Amilcare, sister Minerva, and brother Asdrubale with their pet dog.
It shows an image from Augustine of Hippo's The City of God describing the glory gained by the blessed and on the right includes Charles himself, with his wife Isabella of Portugal, his son Philip II of Spain, his daughter Joanna of Austria, Mary of Hungary and Eleanor of Austria, all wearing their shrouds.
It portrays the moment in which the goddess Diana discovers that her maid Callisto has become pregnant by Jupiter.
The painting depicts the scene when the Virgin Mary being told that she is carrying the child of God, called the Annunciation of the Virgin.
At the first level, the different ages of the three human heads represent the "Three Ages of Man" (youth, maturity, old age).
The Portrait of Alvise Cornaro is a portrait by the Venetian painter Tintoretto, showing the man of letters
In some such depictions Christ is shown with the traditional halo, but the apostles are represented as leading reformers, without halos.
Maurice is shown in a blue breastplate and red tunic in the right foreground, surrounded by the officers of his legion while they decide whether to sacrifice to the pagan gods or accept martyrdom.
Venus is portrayed sitting on Mars' knee, and she wears a fur.
Boy Peeling Fruit is a painting by the Italian Baroque master Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio (15711610) painted circa 15921593.
The Calling of Saint Matthew is a masterpiece by Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio, depicting the moment at which Jesus Christ inspires Matthew to follow him.
The painting portrays Gabrielle d'Estres, mistress of King Henry IV of France, sitting nude in a bath, holding a ring.
The central figure of the Virgin opens her cloak, sheltering a group of figures in then-fashionable ruffs, including the painter's son and other members of the Toledan aristocracy.
The three figures demonstrate the most dramatic foreshortening imaginable.
According to St John's Gospel, Thomas the Apostle missed one of Jesus's appearances to the Apostles after His resurrection, and said "Unless I see the nail marks in his hands and put my finger where the nails were, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe it."
The painting depicts the martyrdom of St. Peter.
Caravaggio's version of the scene combined Pilate's display with the earlier moment of Christ, already crowned with thorns, mockingly robed like a king by his tormentors.
In the painting the Marchesa is placed in an opulent setting to convey luxury; adorned with jewels, she wears a satin and lace dress with a broad ruff round her neck.
The subject of a sleeping Cupid, bowstring broken and arrows cast aside, usually signifies the abandonment of worldly pleasures, and dell'Antella may have commissioned it as a reminder of his vow of chastity.
It shows John the Evangelist as a young man holding a chalice, in which is a dragon, referring to his surviving a poisoned cup of wine in prison.
It shows the punishment of Prometheus.
Two Women with a Candle or Old Woman and Young Woman with a Candle is a 1616-1617 painting by Peter Paul Rubens, now in the Mauritshuis, The Hague, Netherlands.
It shows the Roman emperor
The paintings shows the Gorgon's reflection on Perseus' shield.
Saint John the Evangelist is depicted as a young man accompanied by his traditional symbol the eagle and two putti.
It shows Cleopatra committing suicide with an asp.
Mercury, the messenger of the gods, watches the club-footed blacksmith god, Vulcan, punish the bold and cunning Titan Prometheus for stealing fire from the gods and giving it to mortals.
Laughing Boy (Dutch: Lachende jongen) is a circular oil-on-panel painting by the Dutch artist Frans Hals.
Now in the Allen Memorial Art Museum of Oberlin, Ohio, the piece depicts the Roman Catholic subject of Saint Sebastian Tended by Saint Irene, after Irene of Rome and her maid rescued him following his attempted martyrdom by the Roman authorities.
It represents the moment when Stephen was stoned outside the city by his many tormentors (about twenty characters), and he utters his last words to Christ as the light around him shows that the heavens are open.
The figure of an angel blowing a trumpet draws on the angel in Caravaggio's own Saint Matthew and the Angel.
The oval painting depicts a half-bust of the eremitic early Christian monk, St Anthony Abbot.
Done in oil on wood panel, the painting depicts a father and his daughter in their contemporaneously stylish home.
Vision shows Nolasco dreaming of the Heavenly Jerusalem from the Book of Revelation, shown in the top left and pointed to by an angel to his right.
In front of each Carthusian is a terracotta bowl with meat and pieces of bread.
Andromeda represents Rembrandt's first full length mythological female nude history painting and is taken from a story in Ovid's Metamorphoses.
The prince is shown in the uniform of a captain-general (adapted to his infant state but still including a commander's baton in his right hand, a shoulder sash and a sword hilt in his left hand).
Portrait of a Woman, possibly a member of the Beresteyn family is a 1632 portrait painting by Rembrandt.
It shows the discovery of Erichthonius in a basket by one of the daughters of Cecrops (either Pandrosus or Aglaulus).
He is shown dressed in a general's cloak and black doublet, is surrounded by abandoned helmets, armour and weapons, and with a fragment of a battle-scene of Lepanto in the background.
It depicts the adoration of the golden calf by the Israelites, from chapter 32 of the Book of Exodus.
He is portrayed in half bust over a neutral background, the face appearing tired and swollen, markedly aged from the previous, more famous equestrian portrait of Duke de Olivares also by Velzquez.
The portrait Equestrian Portrait of Elisabeth of France was painted by Velzquez of Elisabeth of France circa 1635, originally for the Hall of Realms, originally a wing of the Buen Retiro Palace in Madrid.
It shows the Twelfth Night king.
The painting depicts a young Jesus with Saint Joseph, his earthly father.
The mountains round Madrid can be seen in the right background, whilst the subject holds cards in his hands.
It depicts the departure of the Queen of Sheba to visit King Solomon in Jerusalem, described in the tenth chapter of the First Book of Kings.
Portrait of a Man Holding Gloves is a 1648 oil on mahogany panel portrait by Rembrandt, now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
A far-reaching view across an open plain varied with woods, meadows, and cornfields, villages and churches amid trees, cottages and  windmills.
This painting by Hooch showing a woman delousing a child's hair, was documented by Hofstede de Groot in 1910, who wrote; "71.
Portrait of a Man is a c. 1657 portrait painting painted by Rembrandt.
It shows the painter Gerard de Lairesse holding a paper.
The Portrait of Juan de Pareja is a painting by Spanish artist Diego Velzquez of his assistant Juan de Pareja, a notable painter in his own right, who was enslaved and owned by Velzquez at the time the painting was completed.
A storm is coming on.
It shows the young Virgin Mary with her mother Anne and her father Joachim.
The village lies in  the middle distance, with the sea beyond.
The painting shows its most famous member Dionysio Miseroni (16071661) at the height of his fame wearing his gold medal that he received from Emperor Ferdinand III.
This painting shows a woman as eavesdropper, a theme in interiors painted several times by Maes in the 1650s.
It shows the Roman consul Marcus Curius Dentatus, preferring turnips to an offer of gold and silver objects, including the Memorial Guild Cup by Adam van Vianen.
Thus, rather than the usual beauty pageant portrayed by artists depicting this biblical scene, Maratta shows only Eliezer, Rebecca, and one other woman against whom the viewer may contrast Rebecca's beauty and virtue.
In the foreground is the contest.
Landscape with Two Nymphs is a c.1659 painting by Nicolas Poussin.
It shows the moment when David sends Uriah the Hittite to the front-line of the war with the Ammonites so that David can sleep with Uriah's wife Bathsheba.
Girl with a Pearl Earring (Dutch:
MOTHER BESIDE A CRADLE.
Landscape with Waterfall (Dutch Landschap met waterval, in de verte een kerk)
It depicts the playing of a skittles game, and is now in the National Gallery, London, to which it was bequeathed in 1910 by George Salting.
Landscape with Psyche Outside the Palace of Cupid, or The Enchanted Castle, 1664, is a painting, oil on canvas,  by Claude Lorrain in the National Gallery, London.
Slaughtered Ox, also known as Flayed Ox, Side of Beef, or Carcass of Beef, is a 1655 oil on beech panel still life painting by Rembrandt.
The work shows a young woman dressed in a yellow shawl, holding up a pair of bobbins in her left hand as she carefully places a pin in the pillow on which she is making her bobbin lace.
This painting shows a sumptuous display of sweets in various pottery containers and in the center a silver sugar holder with a gold spoon emphasizes the wealth of this dessert spread.
Commissioned by either Sir Robert Paston or his father Sir William Paston in the early 1670s, the oil painting depicts a small fraction of the Paston family's collected treasures.
The painting depicts a wheat field in the Netherlands.
The painting is a full-length portrait of young Carlos II of Spain with long hair and dressed with military equipment in the form of armor, riding boots, sword and scepter.
Hampton Court also houses the Windsor Beauties by Sir Peter Lely, depicting the most beautiful ladies of the court of King Charles II of England, a generation before.
It depicts the Battle of Vigo Bay fought by Anglo-Dutch and Franco-Spanish forces.
The main dancer in the centre may be the leading actress Charlotte Desmares (the mistress of the Duc d'Orleans), whilst some identify the dancer in the black hat as the Flemish painter Nicolas Vleughels, a friend of Watteau.
It depicts an array of famous Roman monuments in a rural setting.
It depicts a scene in a small, dingy attic room where a poet sits at his desk in the dormer and, scratching his head, stares at the papers on the desk before him, evidently looking for inspiration to complete the poem he is writing.
The painting features a young kitchen maid in a Hollandish kitchen, taking a break from her work.
The painting employs a  trompe-l'il technique and shows a skinned leg of lamb behind a dead hare, depicted with its eye open and a single drop of blood hanging from the end of its nose.
The painting depicts a woman selling shellfish on the streets of London, typically a job for the wives and daughters of fishmongers who owned stalls in markets such as Billingsgate.
It shows personifications of Time as an old man with a scythe, Old Age as an old woman and Beauty as a young woman.
Painted in 1747, it depicts the view of Dresden from the right bank of the River Elbe, including the Dresden Frauenkirche, the Dresden Cathedral, and the Augustus Bridge.
The work is an unusual combination of two common types of painting of the period: a double portrait, here of a recently married couple, and a landscape view of the English countryside.
Done in oil on canvas, the painting depicts a family discussing "broken eggs", which may be a metaphor for the loss of the young girl's virginity.
Two Girls Dressing a Kitten by Candlelight (also known as Dressing the Kitten)
It shows the Holy Family, with the Virgin Mary's parents saint Anne and saint Joachim and God the Father and the Holy Spirit.
To either side are arranged groups of angels directing the attention to the central scene, dominated by the symbol of the Christianity Trinity and Godhead: an equilateral triangle inscribed with the Tetragrammaton in Hebrew.
Done in oil on canvas, the painting depicts an assortment of fruits and bread set before a stark background.
Portrait of a Large Dog is an oil painting by George Stubbs.
The work is a history painting depicting an episode from Plutarch's Lives in which Greek court physician Erasistratus diagnoses the illness of Antiochus, the son of Seleucus I, as lovesickness for his stepmother Stratonice.
In the painting, an old man in a white robe sits upright on a bed, one hand extended over a cup, the other gesturing in the air.
The portrait depicts Comtesse de la Chtre, wife of the Compte de la Chtre and future wife of Franois Arnail de Jaucourt.
Alexander Hamilton is a 1792 full-length portrait of Alexander Hamilton by John Trumbull.
The painting depicts Romulus's wife Hersilia  the daughter of Titus Tatius, leader of the Sabines  rushing between her husband and her father and placing her babies between them.
Jerome, one of the four Doctors of the Church, is depicted as a half-clad anchorite in his cell, with common iconographical attributes, a cross, a skull and bible.
Still Life of a Lamb's Head and Flanks (Spanish:
Self-Portrait Aged 24 is an 1804 self-portrait painting by Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, first exhibited at the Paris Salon of 1806.
The sitter is shown in three-quarters view, placed against a backdrop of open sky with some clouds.
The painting depicts leafless trees in the winter snow, with the tops of two of the trees broken off and the third bent by the prevailing wind, giving the work a haunted, spectral air.
Duvaucey is positioned in a flat pictorial space, gazing frontally at the viewer, dressed in lavish clothing and accessories.
The painting depicts Oedipus explaining the riddle of the Sphinx.
The painting is bathed in a dim, cold light which gives it look feeling of purgatory.
The large oil on canvas represents three blacksmiths toiling over an anvil, and has been described by the art historian Fred Licht as "undoubtedly the most complete statement of Goya's late style."
The details of the ruins are precisely observed as they appear at the site in Rome.
The artist then modified it in 1814 to show him in full dress black uniform with gold braid and to add the Order of the Golden Fleece and Military Gold Cross with three clasps (both of which Wellington had been awarded in the interim).The property of the 11th Duke of Leeds, it was auctioned in 1961, with the New York collector Charles Wrightsman bidding 140,000.
Ingres shows her in full length, dress in a long, high waisted black velvet dress and pelisse.
Achilles begins to draw his sword in anger upon hearing this, while Agamemnon's wife, Clytemnestra, looks on in grief and sadness with her hand on her daughter's shoulder.
The picture shows the painter leaning on the back of a chair, focused entirely upon the easel before him.
The muscular and nude Flea is depicted using its jutting tongue to gorge on a bowl of blood.
This painting depicts General John Burgoyne prepared to surrender his sword to General Horatio Gates.
The woman is tightly framed and shown gazing upwards in fear.
View from the Artist's Window (Danish: Udsigt fra kunstnerens vindue) is a painting from 1825 by Martinus Rrbye, a Danish Romantic genre, landscape and architecture painter.
The Watzmann (German - Der Watzmann) is an 1824-1825 oil on canvas painting by Caspar David Friedrich, showing the Watzmann mountain as seen from Berchtesgaden to the north-east.
The attempt resulted in a disaster, with the larger part of the Greeks slain.
He studied these ship types beforehand, borrowing technical drawings from the naval dockyard.
It depicts the ruins of Aqua Claudia, which was completed in the 1st century AD near Rome.
It depicts, from a victorious Dutch colonial  perspective, the capture of Prince Diponegoro in 1830, which signaled the end of the Java War (18251830).
The Fountain of Indolence is an oil painting by the English artist J. M. W. Turner.
It shows the retreat from Moscow in 1812 at the end of the French invasion of Russia.
In this classic example of a Romantic maritime painting, Turner depicts a ship, visible in the background, sailing through a tumultuous sea of churning water and leaving scattered human forms floating in its wake.
Self-Portrait with a Black Dog, Portrait of the Artist or Courbet with a Black Dog (French - Courbet au chien noir) is an 1842 painting by Gustave Courbet, retouched by the artist in 1844.
This painting shows a girl holding grasses and willow fronds on Palm Sunday.
Early Evening Landscape
The Monarch of the Glen is an oil-on-canvas painting of a red deer stag completed in 1851 by the English painter Sir Edwin Landseer.
In the centre three young women offer a barefoot peasant girl something to eat.
The Awakening Conscience (1853) is an oil-on-canvas painting by the English artist William Holman Hunt, one of the founders of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, which depicts a young woman rising from her position in the lap of a man and gazing transfixed out of the window of a room.
In the foreground are the bodies of dead Irish warriors.
The Seaside at Palavas is an 1854 painting of the beach at Palavas-les-Flots by Gustave Courbet.
The shepherdess in this painting is wearing the linen hood and white cloak that were typical of the peasant women in communities of north-central France such as Barbizon.
The painting depicts a nude standing upright between an opening in the rocks and holding in her hands a pitcher, from which water flows.
The painting depicts three women, one with a cello, in the foreground of a forest landscape.
The painting depicts a peasant girl holding a violin and standing on a bridge over the Seine in Paris.
Boy Carrying a Sword is an 1861 oil painting by the French artist douard Manet and is now displayed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.
Italian Woman with Children by a Stream is an 1862 painting by Johann Kler.
The detailed foreground links to the sparely rendered background via the curving spit of land in a style typical of Lane's later work.
Symphony in White, No. 1, also known as The White Girl, is a painting by James Abbott McNeill Whistler.
Its imagery includes an African-American man reading the first part of a Bible, possibly the Book of Exodus.
Princess depicts a beautiful Western woman wearing a Hanfu (a kind of Chinese traditional clothing) and standing amidst numerous Asian objects, including a rug and screen as well as some porcelain.
It is a scene of tranquillity: a woman and children quietly enjoying themselves by a glass-flat, tree-flanked lake.
Painted in 1865, the concluding year of the American Civil War, the work depicts four African American Union Army teamsters sitting on the sunny side of a Sibley tent.
The painting depicts an aged art collector in his modest gallery.
The pair of paintings juxtaposes this sunny regatta watched at high tide by well dressed bourgeois, with an overcast scene at low tide, fishing boats hauled onto the beach peopled with sailors and workers.
In the painting, Lincoln is observed alone, leaning forward, with his elbow on his knee and his head resting on his hand.
The painting is also referred to as Knitting Anne due to the simplistic nature of the young woman portrayed in the painting.
It shows the 'camembert', a small island planted with a single tree, linking the island to a pontoon-bridge.
It depicts Jane Morris in the river landscape near Kelmscott Manor, with the manor in the left background and Kelmscott Church below the hill to the right.
The woman in the center is called "Progress", and on her head is what Crofutt calls "The Star of the Empire".
It shows people of the Russian tsar Ivan the Terrible kneeling before the Polish king Stephen Bthory at Pskov during the final period of peace negotiations at the end of the 1578-1582 Livonian campaign.
In the painting, Rand is reading a book while petting a cat.
Place de la Concorde or Viscount Lepic and his Daughters Crossing the Place de la Concorde is an 1876 oil painting by Edgar Degas.
The image shows pedestrians in the Place de l'Europe in the 8th arrondissement of Paris.
The subject of The Cobbler's Apprentice is a boy, shown three-quarters-length, and turned three quarters to the right.
Done in oil on canvas, the impressionist painting depicts morning in the harbor of Gloucester, a major fishing port in New England.
Paris Street; Rainy Day
It depicts a woman at the Garnier Opera using opera glasses to watch the opera, while she herself is being spied upon by a gentleman in the audience.
It depicts not the actual birth of Venus from the sea, but her transportation in a shell as a fully mature woman from the sea to Paphos in Cyprus.
It portrays three people enjoying a lunch at the Maison Fournaise located on the le des Impressionnistes in the Seine in Chatou, west of Paris.
In this self-portrait as painter he depicted himself as a stylish Boulevardier in front of a dark background.
Woman with a Pearl Necklace in a Loge (or Lydia in a Loge) is an 1879 painting by American artist Mary Cassatt.
Here van Gogh primarily captures the respite and relief from city life found in nature.
The figure appears to be seated beside the shore  behind her back there seems to be grass.
Produced in Paris in 1881, the painting depicts the sisters Alice and Elisabeth, daughters of Louise Cahen d'Anvers and her husband the Jewish banker Louis Raphal Cahen d'Anvers.
It depicted a domestic scene in ancient Roman life, portraying two women lying on the steps of a house.
Cows in the Meadow is an oil painting created in 1883 by Vincent van Gogh.
Like much of his work of this period, Marshy Landscape is rendered with subdued earthy tones, giving the impression of being painted with the very soil itself.
The painting depicts a stormy sea on a winter day.
Hobson describes the work as having a "keyhole composition" because a partial ring of women focus upon a single other (the priestess).Hobson goes on to say that the painting helps "to establish Waterhouse as a classical painter" because of his use of "classical, geometrical structures...
According to that ritual, Bel was offered a girl who sat on the lap of the Bel's statue overnight, and then was replaced by another, all of whom were the winners of daily beauty contests.
It depicts two sailors determining their ship's position.
It is an allegorical depiction of two women together, one a representation of Spain and the other of the Philippines.
It depicts Dutch artist Vincent van Gogh, who became lifelong friends with Russell after meeting him at Fernand Cormon's atelier in Paris, which they both attended.
The works, which include parks, restaurants, riverside settings and factories, mark a breakthrough in van Gogh's artistic development.
Charon is presented at the right side of the canvas as a lone figure with a shroud.
It shows Cleopatra VII sitting at a banquet observing the effects of poisons on prisoners condemned to death.
Painted in 1888 in Arles, France, it depicts autumnal scenes in the Alyscamps, an ancient Roman necropolis in Arles which is lined with poplars and stone sarcophagi.
Falling Autumn Leaves is a pair of paintings (in French pendants, i. e. counterparts) by the Dutch painter Vincent van Gogh.
The Lady has made her way to this small boat with a few of her belongings.
The house was the right wing of 2 Place Lamartine Arles, France, where, on May 1, 1888, Van Gogh rented four rooms.
Painted in 1889, it depicts actress Ellen Terry in a famous performance of William Shakespeare's tragedy Macbeth, wearing a green dress decorated with iridescent beetle wings.
The painting shows a group of Indian women from various backgrounds playing their traditional instruments;from the Muslim courtesan on the right to the Nair woman  playing a veena on the left, the painting emphasizes the dresses and adornments of women from each part of India.
It depicts currency and stamps so realistically that Haberle was accused of pasting real money to the canvas.
It portrays two dancers dancing the can-can in the middle of the crowded dance hall.
A deeper blue border painted around the edge of the canvas, merging into a flat frame in the same shade of blue.
Miss Nightingale at Scutari, 1854, also known as The Lady with the Lamp, is an 1891 painting by Henrietta Rae.
The painting shows a woman seated beside an urn filled with balls of wool; Cupid is leaning across her shoulders applying perfume to her ear.
Renoir depicts two young girls at a piano in a bourgeois home, one in a white dress with blue sash seated playing and one in a pink dress standing.
It portrayed a scene inside a caf in Paris with a woman identified as a courtesan or a prostitute representing "fallen womanhood", who was about to rise from a sofa overshadowing three men placed at the far left corner of the painting.
Over My Dead Body, one of the first of the series, Casas paints a young woman standing between two doorways .
The subject of the painting is the sixteen-year-old Geesje Kwak, of whom Breitner made a series of photographs and paintings wearing red and white kimonos.
Paul Gauguin painted Fritz Schneklud in 1894, a friend and professional musician.
Her royal dress  strong contrasts her natural surroundings.
This double portrait of eight-year-old Jenny and twelve-year-old Berthe is typical of Lemmen's detailed, austere portraiture.
This work represents an old man in a deserted French street, during a curfew of Prussian occupation.
Cannon Rock is an 1895 oil painting depicting an offshore wave breaking over a submerged shelf, with water surging into an inlet created by rocks in the foreground.
It depicts a Filipino man and a Filipino woman having a lovers' quarrel.
Sowing and Harvesting and Market, popularly referred to as the Vrac triptych, is a three-panel oil painting by the Serbian realist Paja Jovanovi.
The painting depicts an itinerant family; a woman with her child on her lap and a man boiling a billy for tea.
However, Renoir is the one chosen to make the portrait of the two young women playing the piano, a composition similar to the Girls playing the piano painted in 1892.
Compositionally, the painting is similar to De Morgan's Flora and Cassandra: Helena is standing upright and tall, in a peaceful posture that reminds to Boticcelli's representations of Greek and Roman goddesses (such as Athena or Venus) that are, at the same time, an evocation of classical art, a usual characteristic between Renaissance artists.
In this self-portrait, Van Gogh is shown wearing a blue cap with black fur and a green overcoat, with a bandage covering his ear and extending under his chin.
An oil on canvas, it represents a wooded area close to Aix-en-Provence.
The subject was to be portrayed standing easily with one hand in his trousers pocket and the other holding a manuscript from which he raised his eyes as if to direct them toward an audience.
The work is a Biblical scene based on chapter 2, verse 6 of the Book of Exodus, in which Pharaoh's daughter comes to wash in the River Nile, and finds the infant Moses abandoned in a basket in the reeds.
The Open Window depicts the view out the window of his apartment in Collioure, on the Southern coast of France.
Miss Bentham is a 1906 oil painting by the American artist George Bellows, depicting a full length, standing, nude woman, from the rear.
The painting is of Sargent's niece, Reine Ormond, in an exotic cashmere shawl in seven different poses.
It depicts a lone, sleeping woman shackled by the wrists to a column while butterflies fly past.
It was the second of Klimt's works to focus on a pregnant woman, both depicting Herma, one of his favourite models.
It depicts the victory of Santiago de Liniers against William Carr Beresford during the first of the British invasions of the Ro de la Plata, and the subsequent liberation of Buenos Aires from British rule.
Like the other works in this series it depicts a small room cluttered with surreal objects.
The sky was painted thinly, allowing part of the design of the postcard to show through.
Lennuk is a painting by Nikolai Triik of 1910,  depicting Lennuk, the ship of Kalevipoeg, son of Kaleva, from the Estonian national epic Kalevipoeg.
The Enigma depicts an urban scene with the classical architecture and angular lighting that are de Chirico's hallmarks.
The painting represents a barely draped (nude) woman holding a spoon, seated at a table with a cup of tea.
Painted in the Futurist style, the work centres on a woman on a balcony in front of a busy street, with the sounds of the activity below portrayed as a riot of shapes and colours.
Little Blue Horse is an abstract painting by Franz Marc, from 1912.
Dynamism of a Human Body:
The Smoker), or Man with Pipe, is a Cubist painting by the French artist Jean Metzinger.
Done in oil on canvas, the work depicts the rugged New England shoreline near Portsmouth, New Hampshire.
Woman on a High Stool
The painting shows Nubiola sitting in a chair beside a table on which there are fruit, a porr (typical Catalan wine vessel for drinking directly without a glass), and a potted plant.
Though situated like any deathbed portrait, the dying man is not looking piously towards the heavens, but into a mirror, while surrounded by mourners.
It shows British soldiers in heavy winter greatcoats scrambling up from their trenches to advance over a snow-covered landscape.
The portrait is of an unknown male youth, sitting at a chair, his left elbow on a table, and his head resting on his palm.
In this painting, a woman "looks out" from what seems to be a window that may, in fact, be a scene from a mural painting within the greater composition with her hand stretched out and up in a gesture of yearning.
Chaliapin rises over the people, from which he had emerged.
The burgeoning, life-supporting river flows past communities of monkeys and of men, past obstacle-spanning bridges, down to the sea, where a pair of cormorants direct the viewer's gaze to the sky and the tornado or "whirling dragon" (, tatsu-maki) that rises from the surging waves, before turning again to mist.
The series shares the synthetic representation of the figure of a Catalan peasant, by a repetition of symbols such as the triangular head, the beard and red hat (called Barretina), all combined in one pole figure.
The static nature of the perfect red sphere which appears frozen and floating in space, in the white primed canvas of the upper part of the painting, contrasts with the dynamic complicated filigree linear structure of the lower part of the painting.
It depicts a bridge connecting two sheer cliffs.
The painting depicts a woman looking into a mirror, with a familiar yet contrasting mirror-image looking back at her.
It was inspired by the round shapes that marked the return of the artist to orphism and study of harmony in painting.
The piece depicts a hand holding a reflective  sphere.
The painting shows Narcissus sitting in a pool, gazing down.
On the left there is an apple impaled by a fork, then a bottle, a loaf of bread and the shoe of the title.
On the right side of the painting, on the dais, is George Washington, president of the Convention, standing upright and looking out over the delegates.
The painting shows the profiles of eight heads in a modest space.
The Age of Reptiles is a 110-foot (34 m) mural depicting the period of ancient history when reptiles were the dominant creatures on the earth, painted by Rudolph F. Zallinger.
It is a tempera work done in a realist style, depicting a woman lying on the ground in a treeless, mostly tawny field, looking up at a gray house on the horizon; a barn and various other small outbuildings are adjacent to the house.
It depicts Jesus Christ on the cross in a darkened sky floating over a body of water complete with a boat and fishermen.
The Sacrament of the Last Supper depicts thirteen figures gathered around a table.
The painting depicts two girls, wearing dresses and with their hair tied, running from the viewer.
Girl with Ball depicts a woman wearing a bathing suit holding a beach ball with red stripes in the same color as her lips and tongue.
The painting depicts a nude woman putting on a dressing gown.
The white farmhouse and a smaller outbuilding are depicted at sunset.
In each panel, Dyer is framed by a doorway, and set against a flat, anonymous foreground coloured with black and brown hues.
The painting is a series of multi-colored oil and pencil drawings of what appear to be teeth marks or teeth charts from a dental office or laboratory.
It depicts a group of people carrying crossbows in a room with a map on the back wall and birds hanging from the roof.